                           NUMB. XVI. 
                                
			Sed virum ver∆í virtute vivere animatum addecet,
			Fortiterq; innoxium vacare adversum adversarios. Enn: 
		
		Mr. Intelligencer.

IT may appear to you perhaps a thing very unnatural, to receive a
Complaint from a Son against his Father, but the treatment, which I
meet with from mine, is of such a Nature, that it is impossible for
me not to complain. 
		You must know there are three Brethren of us, George, Patrick,
and Andrew; I am the second, but the last in Affection with my
Father, for which I call Heaven and Earth to Witness, I never
committed any Fault to incur his displeasure, or to deserve his
neglect. But so it is, that the best of Men have oftentimes been
misled in the choice of their Minions, and very undiscerning in
conferring their favours where they ought. 
		If Parents could but once bring themselves to be impartial, it
would beyond all doubt, produce a delightful Union in their
Children, and be the most binding Cement, that could be thought of,
to preserve their Affections, because an equal Dispensation of
favours would entirely remove all cause of murmuring, repining, or
envy. And, what is of the greatest Consequence, would secure the
love and esteem of their Children; whereas a partial behaviour in
Parents, must necessarily produce the contrary. 
		But to State my Case, in the best manner I can, and with an
unbiassed regard to Truth, I think it first necessary to give you
our Characters, with an Account of my Father's behaviour, that you
may be the better able to give me your Advice. 
		First then, to begin with my Brother George. He was ever a
great lover of his Belly, and formerly used to Cram himself with
Beef, Pudding, and White-pot, but for some time past, he has taken
more delight in New-fangled Toss-ups, and French Kick-shaws. This
high Feeding does naturally dispose him to be Haughty, Stuborn,
Cholerick and Rebellious, insomuch, that beside his insults towards
others, he is ready, upon all occasions, to fly in his own Father's
Face, and apt to despise every Body, but himself. 
		He is so various in his Opinions, that he is of as many
Religions, as there are and have been Sects, since the beginning of
Christianity; but the True and Reformed Church, as by Law
Established, is what he chiefly frequents. He was once a great
Admirer of Ancient Learning, but he has long since quitted this, for
the Reading of News-Papers, Pamphlets, and Modern Languages. In his
younger Years, he was fond of Manly Exercises, such as Fencing,
Leaping, Boxing, Pitching the Bar, Wrestling, Hurling, Foot-ball,
Hunting, &c. But of late he has faln into a strange and
unaccountable Effeminacy, and seems to take delight in nothing, but
Masquerades, Plays, and Italian Operas. He is very fond of Italian
Magnificent Buildings, although entirely inconsistent with our
Climate, extravagant in the highest degree, in purchasing fine
Paintings, and Statues, and no less expensive in vast extensive
Parks and Gardens, by which means, he has almost run out all his
Fortune. 
		My youngest Brother Andrew, who has cunning enough to outwit
the Devil, joyned with Brother George some Years ago, and they
manage so dextrously together, that whatever they say is a Law with
my Father; however, they are not without their Quarrels now and
then, but Brother Andrew still comes by the worst, although he is
cautious enough, to go always armed; for Brother George wears a
longer Sword. Brother Andrew is not very nice in his Food, but loves
fine Cloaths. This I suppose he has learned abroad; for he is a
great Traveller. His chief Studies are Mathematicks, and the Civil-
law, in both which he has made a considerable Progress. As for his
Religion, although he openly professes himself a most Rigid Fanatick
of the Kirk, yet he is shrewdly suspected, to have a hankering after
Popery. He has one eminent bad Quality, which is, that he cannot
easily forgive and forget. I remember I was once so unfortunate, as
to tell a fair Lady, (a Mistress of mine) before his Face, that I
would stand by her against him, and all her other Adversaries, which
he took hainously ill, and has not forgiven me to this hour, but
lies upon the Watch, to do me all the ill Offices he can. 
		I come now to my own Character, in which I shall not Conceal,
nor Gloss over my Vices, Errors, or Failings, but at the same time,
I shall not think it inconsistent with Modesty, to tell you my
Virtues. 
		I have but a small Fortune, can hardly keep Soul and Body
together, yet out of a regard to my Family, which is very Ancient, I
love to make what they call a Figure, upon extraordinary occasions.
And now and then I furnish my Table with Victuals, and Liquors of
the best kinds, which makes my Father, and Brother George, think I
have got the World in a String. I am kind and hospitable to
Strangers, although they frequently Rob my House, and turn my
Children to ly in the Barn. 
		I am so fond of Learning, that I put them to the best School in
the Kingdom, and I plainly see they will be only the wiser, but
never the richer for it, because my Father uses all his Interest for
brother Georges Sons, and the greatest Dunce among them shall be
better provided for, than the most Ingenious of mine. And I must say
I have some who are equal in Learning to the best of his. I had a
designe once, to follow Merchandise; that I might be the better able
to Provide for my Poor Children, but Brother George having a mind to
make a Monopoly, prevailed upon my Father, to join against me, and
so at last they contrived it, that I should sell nothing but a few
of my Catle, and some Linnen Cloath, which is all the Support I
have; Whereas brother George can Sell every thing he has, all the
World over. And so cruel is he to me, that he will not let me have
even a bit of his dirt, if he thinks it will be of any advantage to
me. My Religion is of three Sorts, The Established, Popish and
Presbyterian, but I have a greater Share of the First in me. I think
it is best, because it encourages obedience to my Father, more than
either of the other two. It is not long since Brother George, and
Andrew, were in a confederacy against my Father, with an Intent to
turn him out of his House, and give another the Possession, at which
critical Juncture, I mustered up a great Number of my Sons, and
Servants, to his Assistance, and for ought I know saved both his
Life, and Fortune. 
		Soon after this, I had like to have been ruined by a Project;
for one of my Brother George's Family endeavoured to perswade my
Father, that Gold, and Silver, were of no use to me, and desired
leave to furnish me with a few Counters, in lieu thereof, and I fear
I should have been so Weak, as to accept of them, had it not been
for the Seasonable Remonstrances, made by Some of my own House. 
		These are a fewe of the many Hardships I have suffered,
notwithstanding all which, I am willing to continue a Passive
Obedience, to my Dear Father; for I have Reason to believe, that his
unkindness to me is owing to ill Advisers, who have prejudiced him
against me, and my Children; but I Hope, before long, he will be
able to distinguish his most faithful Son. In the mean time, I do
humbly entreat the Favour of you to Write a Letter to my Father,
which he may See in Print, for I Fear all my Letters to him hitherto
have been Intercepted. 
		
		SIR, 
YOU have not told me your Father's Name, nor his Quality, and
therefore I am at a loss in what manner I should Address him. But in
common Humanity (because I think your case deplorable) I will give
you what Comfort I am able, together with my best Advice. 
		You are not the only Instance of Suffering Innocence, and
therefore it ought not to Surprize you that Providence (for reasons
unaccountable to us) has laid two great Tryals in your way,
Oppression from your Brethern, and Unkindness from your Father, this
too without any Fault on your Side. If you did not meet with these
Afflictions, you would want an Opportunity of shewing your Humility,
and Resignation, as I understand you do not by your Letter. 
		Let me Advise you, to consider that your Condition is not quite
so Lamentable, as that of Joseph, who triumphed in GOD's own time
over all his Misfortunes, and sufferings, and at last had the
pleasure of doing good, even to his Persecutors; but indeed there is
this Difference, that his grievance was chiefly from his Brethern;
for had his Father joined in the Cruelty, the Wounds would have
Pierced nearer to his Heart. 
		I do not in the least doubt, but there are some about your
Father, who do you ill Offices, (I hope some time or other they will
be detected). You may find a convenient Oportunity of getting fairly
at him. State your Case and expostulate with him concerning your own
and your Children's Sufferings. When he hears your Story, and
beholds your Sincerity, you may be sure of his Compassion, and a
Redress; for there is no Heart so hard as not to Sympathize with
real Woe, no Advocate so Powerful, as Innocence. In the mean time,
let me Conjure you, not to turn aside to the Right or to the Left,
from that indispensable Duty, which the express Laws of GOD enjoin
you, for let me assure you, that Ingratitude to a Parent is, no less
than Rebellion, like the Sin of Witchcraft. 
		I Commit you to his Care and Direction, who is best able to
Govern the unruly affections of Men, to turn the Hearts of the
Malicious, and to Relieve and Support those who suffer for the Sake
of Righteousness. 
		
			I am your faithful Friend;
				The Intelligencer. 