                          NUMB. XVIII.
                                
                 Hic dies anno redeunte festus.
						Hor:
		My Dear Country-Men,
IT has been the Custom of all wise Nations, not only to confer
immediate honours upon their Benefactors, but likewise to
distinguish their Birth-Days, by Anniversary rejoycings.  This was a
most generous Institution, to transmit those Heroes to posterity,
who gloriously signalized themselves, in the Defence of their
Country, that others, being Spirited up by their Example, might
endeavour to deserve the same Encouragement.  It is for this reason,
that I recommend Saint Andrew's-Day unto you, to be Celebrated in a
most Particular manner, being (as I am very well informed) the
DRAPIER's Birth-Day. But before I shall make out the great
Obligations, we have to him, I think it first necessary, to relate
unto you a passage, untoucht upon before, by those who Writ against
Wood's Half-pence, which I have read in an English Historian of
great probity, and Truth. 
		His Name is Fines Morrison.  He was Secretary of State to the
Lord Monjoy, our chief Governour, in the Reign of Queen Elizabeth,
and therefore had the best oportunity, of knowing the State of this
Nation at that time.  He tells you that the Queen, had received an
Account of the Irish being up in Arms (though to speak the truth it
was the English, rather; for the Giraldies, the Tools, the
Cavanaghs, and the Byrns who were the Ring-leaders, were all of
English Extraction.)  She called a Council, where after several
Schemes had been proposed, for reducing the Rebels, it was at last
agreed upon, as the best expedient, to make a base Coin current
among them; for this it was thought would quickly Subdue their
stuborn Spirits, by introducing Poverty, the great humbler of
Families and Nations. 
		Accordingly this expedient was set on Foot, and it had the
intended Effect; for the Merchants, who generally Speaking, consider
nothing but their own private advantage, imported vast Sums of this
base Coin, every hundred Pounds of which stood them not in above
Forty, for so they bought it from the Dutch, who thrust their cloven
Foot into all affairs.  This being discovered, the Rates of things
were raised to Ten times their value, the middle Rank of People were
all ruined by it, and the Poor, through this whole Kingdom, reduced
to Famine, in so much, that all the publick Roads were strowed with
Dead Carcases of miserable Wretches, whose Mouths were Green (as the
Author expresses it) with their last meal of Grass. 
		He likewise gives a Relation, of a very horrible Fact; too
horrible indeed to mention! That a poor Widow of Newry, having six
small Children, and no food to support them, shut up her Doors, Died
through despair, and in about three or four Days after, her Children
were found Eating her Flesh.  He says farther, That at the same
time, a discovery being made of Twelve Women, who made a practice of
stealing Children, to Eat them, they were all burned, by order of
Sir Arthur Chichester, then Governour of the North of Ireland.  He
likewise tells us, that the poor Butchers, and other Trades-men, who
could not afford to part with their goods, at such Rates as the Army
would have them, were daily Dragooned by them.  That the poor
Soldiers were also ruined, for not being able to Buy their Cloathing
here, they were obliged to be supplyed from England, at double
Rates. 
		After many more Evils enumerated, the good Natured, and
Compassionate Author, who all along deplores the miserable Condition
of the poor Natives, tells us, their Case was Represented in such
deplorable Circumstances, that the Queen quickly recalled her Grant,
and put a stop to the base Coin.  And he concludes one Paragraph
thus (as well as I can remember.) 
		We her Majesty's Officers, who thought to make our Fortunes by
our Employments, lost what we had, and we lost our Hearts
therewith. 
		I have now finished my Melancholy extract, from whence I shall
infer, that as like Causes ever have, and ever must produce like
Effects, that Villainous Project of William Wood, might have
intirely ruined this Kingdom, and have Converted it, into one large
Poor House, had not the DRAPIER (whom I shall honour while I live)
prevented that by his PEN, which perhaps Twenty thousand Swords,
could not have done.  Some very great Men, whose Names I am loath to
Mention, were so Angry with the DRAPIER, for saving his Country, and
disobliging their Friend William Wood, that they orderd a good Sum
of Mony, as a reward to any one, who should discover which of the
Town DRAPIER's, it was, that durst be so Impudent, and had it been
found out, it is highly probable, they would have Seized all the
Goods in his Shop, and have Imprisoned, and Pillored him into the
Bargain, to make him an example to all PATRIOTS. 
		Consider then my dear Country Men, the hazard, which this Noble
Spirited DRAPIER did run for your Sakes. How like the old Heroe
Camillus, he flew in suddainly to our Rescue, when Wood's Half-pence
were like the Brazen Bucklers, thrown into the opposite Scale, by
our Enemies, to fill their Pockets more plentifully, with our Gold,
and Silver.  That he has done his best endeavour, to save us from
Poverty and Slavery, and consequently has the strongest Title, to
our Gratitude. 
		Let us not Act then, in a Christian Country, like the Barbarous
Heathens, who frequently, when their greatest Deliverances were
wrought, either Slighted, or banished, or Poisoned, or Murthered the
Benefactors, or the Heroes, or reduced them to the Necessity, of
Dying by their own Hands. 
		So fell the great Patriots Demosthenes, Cicero, Socrates,
Phocion, Themistocles; And Dion of Syracuse, who was most inhumanly
given up, to be Butchered by some Zacynthian Ruffians, after he had
recovered the ungrateful Sicilians their freedom.  
		We ought likewise to consider, that we may possibly stand in
need of a DRAPIER's Assistance another Time. 
		And it must be an uncommon strain of Virtue in any Man, to
serve those People, who will not at least offer him their thanks, or
own their Obligation to him. 
		What makes the Soldier, and Consecrates the Heroe, but Rewards,
and Honours! 
		Let a Prince be ever so great a Soldier himself, if he fails in
this single point, of giving Valour its due Encouragement, he will
find his Soldiers but very slack in their Duty, and full as loose in
their Loyalty. 
		It is even so in all other Professions; let Men pretend what
they will, as to Conscience, and Duty, they are but Hypocrites, when
they say, they Act with a View to these alone.  Proper
Encouragements have ever been expected, by the best of Men, and it
is very just, they should have their due, as well as Câ€˜sar. 
		I dare venture to engage for the DRAPIER, that he expects no
more, for his great Services, but that Love, and Regard, that
Respect and Esteem, which every Irish Man, who has any Virtue left,
ought to have, for so great a Benefactor.  I have my self, one way,
or other, five hundred Pounds a Year, and I am certain, I make the
Computation in my own Favour, when I say, that I owe him four
hundred and fifty pounds per Annum.  Let others in Proportion to
their Fortune, make Use of the same Arithmetick, how much will the
Nation owe him! 
		And can any one, after this, refuse a few Complements to his
BIRTH-DAY, when Furze, and Candles, are so cheap, and considering
that our Houses can never be better adorned, than by Illuminations,
in respect to those, who enable us to keep them? 
		I wish, my dear Country-Men, I could cast a Veil over one piece
of Ingratitude, which you have been Guilty of, to one of your
Deliverers; I mean to the Great and Glorious King William, that for
two Years past, you have laid aside his Anniversary-Dinner at the
Tholsel, forgetting that he did not only, save us from Popery and
Slavery, but did in a very Particular manner, Distinguish, and
Reward the Gentlemen of this Kingdom, both of the Gown and the
Sword, and made the People in general, so much his peculiar Care,
that there was no complaining in our Streets. 
		I would not here be understood, to approve of that Bumper-
Loyalty, of getting Drunk to the Memory of the Dead, but to have an
Annual meeting, to shew a decent Respect for those, who have been
our True Friends, and Benefactors, either Living, or Dead, and to
exclude all others, who are not so, even from our flattery.
		
		POSTSCRIPT. 
I do make it my Request, that the Widdow, the PRINTER of these
Papers, who did likewise Print the DRAPIER's Letters, may be enabled
by Charitable Encouragements to keep a merry Christmass; for She,
and her Family, were ruined by Iniquitous Imprisonments, and
hardships, for Printing those Papers, which were to the Advantage of
this Kingdom in General.