                           NUMB. XVII.
			
			Quantum stagna Tagi rudibus stillantia venis
			Effluxere decus! quanto pretiosa metallo
			Hermi ripa micat; quantas per Lydia culta
			Despumat rutilas dives Pactolus arenas. 
							Claudian.

		Mr. Intelligencer,
HAVING lately, with great Candor, and Impartiality, perused some of
your Papers, upon the Distress and Poverty of this Island, which you
take care to describe in the most Pathetick manner, you must forgive
me if I differ from you, and think it one of the most Flourishing
and Wealthy Kingdoms in the whole world, and to support my Opinion,
I will venture to affirm, that there never was such Affluence of
ready Cash, as at this present juncture; For have we not more
Bankers than ever were known among us? And whether the Money
Circulates in Specie, or Paper, it is the same thing to us, since
those, who would rather have Cash than Paper, can (as is well known)
have their choice, whenever they please. It is to be presumed that
no Banker gives a NOTE before the Money is first laid down on his
Counter; then of Consequence there is as much Money, as there is
Paper, and that we have a great deal of Paper is most certain,
therefore a great deal of Money. But I will proceed farther, and
prove that we have much more Money than Paper, because there are
Multitudes who keep their own Money. This appears from the great
number of Iron-chests imported from Holland, within these last seven
Years; For what use can they be of, but to lodge Money. They are at
least two hundred. We will suppose, that these, one with another,
may contain two thousand pounds a piece, then the Sum total, amounts
to Four hundred thousand pounds, which is so much Superfluous, and
unnecessary Cash. 
		If this Island were not very Wealthy, it is strongly to be
presumed, That so many Wise and Able Heads, Men of great Learning
and Superior Talents, whose Reputations reacht us from distant
Regions, long before they came among us, so well distinguished in
their own Countries for their great Knowledge, in their several
professions, and here more especially; remarkable for their speaking
in publick, and their profound Skill in Religion, Politicks, and
Law; I say that Men of such Accomplishments would never quit their
own Native Soil, where so many great Estates are daily made, if they
were not sure that this Island must, on Account of its greater
Wealth, Afford them Opportunities of making larger Acquisitions,
than they could at home. 
		Have not almost all the Gentlemen through this Kingdom, for
some years past, declined all profitable Employments, and left them
to be filled by others. Can there be a stronger Argument of their
Wealth, than their choosing to live at their ease, out of Office,
rather than be at the small trouble, which attends the discharge of
a beneficial Employment? 
		Could so many Estated Gentlemen, through the North of Ireland,
afford to keep so much of their Lands waste, and untenanted, if they
had not Money enough by them, to live without Tenants, and would not
the Tenants likewise be glad, to take this Waste Land to Plow, and
Sow, but that they have ready money enough to buy Bread Corn, and
other Necessaries, from all the World beside. 
		As another signal mark of our Riches, there is Scarce a
Gentleman, who does not educate his Sons at our UNIVERSITY (which as
the World sees, wants not it's due Encouragement) where they live at
vast Expences, take Degrees, return to their Fathers, who without
ever troubling Law, or Gospel, maintain them afterwards at Home,
like Gentlemen. 
		Do not many of our Nobility through Wantonness, and
superfluity, reside constantly in another Kingdom, where, it is well
known, they make a better Figure, as to Houses, Coaches, and
Equipages, than their Neighbours? And do not our young Peers, and
Gentry, who go thither to see the World, Game, Race, Drink, &c.
beyond any in Great-Brittain, of the same Age, and Quality, which
they could not Possibly do, if their Agents here had not an
undrainable fund, to suply them? for as the Philosopher says, Nemo
dat quod non habet. Or as the Jugler very Elegantly expresses it,
Where nothing is, there nothing can come out. 
		If it be true, (I know it is confidently Reported) that a great
Number of English Robbers are come over, that likewise is a very
strong Argument of our Wealth; for they would never quit the English
Streets, and Roads, for ours, unless they were sure to find an
Advantage by the Change. It is most certain we never had such a
Number of Robbers, as at this very juncture; from whence we may
conclude, that they could not Possibly Multiply thus, if they did
not find Houses, and People enough to Rob, for all Professions and
Trades encrease, according to the Encouragement they meet with. 
		Are not whole Streets adding every Day to our Metropolis, when
one would think it Large enough already? Some entire Streets and
many Houses, I must confess, are waste, and unhabited. But does not
this shew the Wealth and Wantonness of the Inhabitants, who not
content with their present Dwellings, change them for others, more
costly and expensive? 
		Do not great Numbers of our Inhabitants, daily go off to
America? Will any Man say this can be done with empty Pockets? Can
any Man think otherwise, but that it must be the effect of vast
superfluity, when People wantonly take such long Voyages, and
Journeys, to go where they have no business? 
		The last Argument I shall offer for the Wealth of this Kingdom,
is the great Number of Beggars, in which it abounds; for it is a
common Observation, that Riches are the parent of Idleness, Sloth,
and Luxury, and are not these Naturally productive of Want and
Beggary?
		I could offer many more Arguments, but that I hope you and your
Country Men, are sufficiently convinced, by what I have said, that
Ireland is a place of great Wealth, affluence, and Plenty. Therefore
let me advise you, the next time you put Pen to Paper, not to dress
up Hibernia in Rags, and Dirt, but cloath her in Scarlet, and fine
Linen; for she can very well afford them. Draw the God of Riches,
hovering over your Island, shaking Ten Thousands of Golden Feathers
from his Wings, much more than the Inhabitants can gather, and thus
will your Country Men, who have retrenched upon your last groundless
Alarm, return to their former Hospitality, and we shall see Halcyon,
that is, Irish Days once more. 
		
		SIR,
I Have perused your Arguments, and thus I Answer them. You were
certainly fast asleep, and Writ them all in your Dream, nor do I in
the least doubt, when you awake from your Golden Slumber, but you
will find your self as much mistaken, as the Man in â€™sop, who
Dreamed the Devil shewed him a Treasure. I wish you may not
Likewise, be in the same pickle, and prove a Gold-Finder, between
your own Sheets.

					Your's,
						The Intelligencer. 
						